The digital delivery of Biden’s historic decision, which was simultaneously posted on Instagram,
underscores how social media has reshaped the presidential bully pulpit, becoming the chief news
vector for American voters in the most chaotic election cycle of the modern era.

X, which has struggled since the world’s richest man bought it in October 2022, has reemerged as
a primary source for an American public hungry for swift news updates — especially in the last
tumultuous eight days, which included the assassination attempt on Donald Trump, a groundswell 
of prominent Democrats calling for Biden to drop out of the race, and a pageant-like Republican
National Convention where Trump’s nomination was secured.

In the almost 21 months since the Tesla CEO took over X, he has introduced changes to the platform
that have effectively made it more difficult to separate fact from fiction online. Musk personally
endorsed Trump in the hours after the shooting at a campaign rally in Pennsylvania, raising questions
about the neutrality of the platform as a source for news. Even though X had added custom icons for
MAGA adherents to display their support of Trump during the Republican National Convention, the
network was essential for Biden in seeking to get the word out on social media.
“The last week has solidified the dominant role social media has for political communications and
breaking news,” said Katie Harbath, a former Facebook public policy director who is now chief global
affairs officer at Duco Experts, a tech consulting firm. “It comes with costs but it is the most 
efficient way to get news to the most number of people as fast as possible.”

Biden was hardly alone in prioritizing social media to share news in recent days. Trump gave his 
first public response to his assassination attempt on his right-wing platform, Truth Social, where 
he also announced his choice of Sen. J.D. Vance of Ohio as his running mate.

Biden’s missive found a large audience online, amassing more than 180 million views and more than 
700,000 likes in the first two hours it was online. His Instagram post gained over 1.1 million 
“likes,” and simultaneous posts on other Meta-owned social networks saw high engagement.